README.md, before:

# generator-living-atlas [![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Dependency Status][daviddm-image]][daviddm-url]

> An experimental Yeoman Generator for Living Atlas Ansible Inventories


* [Intro](#intro)
* [But why this?](#but-why-this)
* [Can these quick-start inventories solve all this?](#can-these-quick-start-inventories-solve-all-this)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Options](#options)
* [Screens](#screens)
* [Rerunning the generator](#rerunning-the-generator)
* [Ansible Wrapper](#ansible-wrapper)
* [TODO](#todo)
* [Caveats](#caveats)
* [Any problem with this generator?](#any-problem-with-this-generator)
* [About Yeoman](#about-yeoman)
* [License](#license)

## Intro

This is a super simple `yeoman` generator, a proof of concept trying to facilitate a quick start with Living Atlas `ansible` inventories.

So with the inventories produced by this `yeoman` generator and the [ala-install](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/) `ansible` playbooks you should deploy a demo with the main LA services quickly and without too much pain.

Also, thanks to `yeoman`, you can rerun the assistant enabling, for instance, some new module reusing your previous settings and comparing the differences (see the screenshots).

## But why this?

Ansible is a fantastic tool for manage LA node infrastructures. But nowadays we have some problems with our current `ala-install` inventories/roles & documentation that make their use difficult by newcomers nodes, but also for other non-Australian nodes maintenance:
- There are many config properties that are not documented and this makes quite difficult to tune a LA node
- Sometimes the `/data/*/config/*properties` are well commented but not their source inventories
- From time to time new properties appears but others not ALA nodes don’t notice
- We end using several self-made inventories, duplicate properties (like orgName, urls, etc), and many times this is a source of problems (like [code duplication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duplicate_code)). Some minor sample:
![](dups.png)
- There is a lack of more real production-ready inventories (you have to ask for then).
- `ala-install` has a structure that sometimes is difficult to find some samples or how to start to deploy some service (think in CAS)
- Many times you have to check the `ansible` generated `config/*properties` for non configured or default properties, search the `ansible` role code for know how to configure these variables, re-run `ansible` with these new variables and re-check the `ansible` `/data/*/config/*properties`.
- The demo inventory (or the last Paris workshop inventories) are a good sample but not enough for a new production LA node (lack of inventory variables documentation, missing of important services like CAS)
- We have a lack of info about services versions compatibility
- Sometimes default module versions in inventories or `LATEST` nexus packages are not the correct/latest ones.
- It would be nice to choose strategies that was usable by ALA too (not only LA nodes) - that might help maintenance.

## Can these quick-start inventories solve all this?

No. This is only a *Proof of Concept* that tries to mitigate some of the previous problems.

If we think that some tool like this can be useful, we can add more functionality like:

- Better comments of properties in generated inventories for easy operation & tuning
- ~CAS deployment~ done ✓
- Focus in have well maintained these generator and their inventories
- Autogenerate documentation from the inventories comments with tools like `doxygen`
- etc

or maybe this experiment suggests us other path to follow.

## Installation

First, install [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io) and generator-living-atlas using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (we assume you have pre-installed [node.js](https://nodejs.org/)).

```bash
npm install -g yo
```

Wait!, this generator is experimental and it's not published in npm. So if you want to test it, you can clone this repo and:

```bash
npm link
cd /tmp # or other directory
yo living-atlas
```

If we decide to publish this generator in the future, the normal use is like:

```bash
npm install -g yo
npm install -g generator-living-atlas
```

Then generate your new project:

```bash
yo living-atlas
```

## Options

- You can use `--debug` to see some debug info.
- And `--replay` to use all the previous responses and regenerate the inventories with some modification.

## Screens

A screen recording re-running the generator but using another solr hostname and switching to use SSL (see the differences in the generated inventories):

![](yo-living-atlas.gif)

After running the inventories following the instructions from the generated README over two VMs (like in the Paris 2019 Workshop):

![](after-running-inventories.png)

Differences beween two runs:

![](re-running-diff.png)

We can use these inventories as a base for extracting documentation via `doxygen` (or similar):

![](doxygen-ansible-reference.png)


## Rerunning the generator

You can rerun the generator with the option `--replay` to use all the previous responses and regenerate the inventories with some modification (if for instance you want to add a new service, or using a new version of this generator with improvements).

We recommend to override and set variables adding then to `quick-start-local-extras.yml` and `quick-start-spatial-local-extras.yml` without modify the generated `quick-start-inventory.yml` and `quick-start-spatial-inventory.yml`, so you can rerun the generator in the future without lost local changes.

## Ansible wrapper

Furthermore, an ansible wrapper is generated to facilitate the use of the inventories, very useful for starting deployments. This is the help of the wrapper:

```
./ansiblew --help
This is an ansible wrapper to help you to exec the different playbooks with your
inventories.

By default don't exec nothing only show the commands. With --nodryrun you can exec
the real commands.

With 'main' only operates over your main host.

Usage:
   ansiblew --alainstall=<dir_of_ala_install_repo> [options] [ main | collectory | ala_hub | biocache_service | ala_bie | bie_index | images | lists | regions | logger | solr | cas | biocache_backend | biocache_cli | spatial |  all ]
   ansiblew -h | --help
   ansiblew -v | --version

Options:
  --nodryrun             Exec the ansible-playbook comands
  -p --properties        Only update properties
  -l --limit=<hosts>     Limit to some inventories hosts
  -s --skip=<tags>       Skip tags
  -h --help              Show help options.
  -d --debug             Show debug info.
  -v --version           Show ansiblew version.
----
ansiblew 0.1.0
Copyright (C) 2019 living-atlases.gbif.org
Apache 2.0 License
```

## TODO

- [x] Add basic services (`collectory`, `ala-hub`, etc).
- [x] Add domain/context and service subdomains support
- [x] Add `http`/`https` urls support (this does **not** include `ssl` certificates management)
- [x] Add `regions` service
- [x] Add `species-list` service
- [x] Add `spatial` service
- [x] Disable caches when using the same host for `collectory` & `biocache`
- [x] use `--limit` with hostnames
- [x] Improve README hosts
- [x] Improve README playbook commands
- [x] Add `ansible` wrapper
- [x] Add inventories to add extra vars without modify the generated inventories
- [x] Store = true if you running it for the first time
- [x] Add other administration info (technical_contact, orgEmail, etc)
- [x] Recommend to use git to track your inventories changes
- [x] Add `biocache-backend` and `biocache-cli` playbook and `cassandra` host selection
- [x] Add `CAS` 5 service
- [ ] Fix `apikey_db_dump` location relative to `ala-install`
- [ ] Use a different playbook than demo that do not install by default all main services so we can choose a different host for them
- [ ] Demo index.html uses `biocache_hub_context_path` etc that does not works with multi hosts
- [ ] Document `--skip`
- [ ] Add `--tags` to ansible wrapper
- [ ] Generation of passwords on first run and increase security by default
- [ ] Better testing

## Caveats

- Currently running several services in the same machine and the same domain doesn't configure correctly `nginx` `vhosts`. See [this enhancement issue](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/issues/256) in `ala-install`. As a workaround you can copy and configure the generated `vhosts` in `/etc/nginx/sites-available` with different names so they are not overwritten by `ansible`.
- As we are using the [https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/blob/master/ansible/ala-demo.yml](ansible/ala-demo.yml) playbook, if you are using more that two hosts (the minimal is one for main services, and another for spatial services), some services will be also configured in the main machine. As a workaround, while we fix this, you can use a different playbook for your main machine with the correct limited roles.

## Any problem with this generator?

Please [add an issue](https://github.com/vjrj/generator-living-atlas/issues/new) give us details of your problem and we'll try to help you and to improve the generator. Thanks!

## About Yeoman

 * [Learn more about Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/).

## License

Apache-2.0 © [Living Atlases](https://living-atlases.gbif.org)

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/generator-living-atlas.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/generator-living-atlas
[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas.svg?branch=master
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas
[daviddm-image]: https://david-dm.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas.svg?theme=shields.io
[daviddm-url]: https://david-dm.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas

Commit message:

Update README with more ansiblew samples

README.md, after:

# generator-living-atlas [![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Dependency Status][daviddm-image]][daviddm-url]

> An experimental Yeoman Generator for Living Atlas Ansible Inventories


* [Intro](#intro)
* [But why this?](#but-why-this)
* [Can these quick-start inventories solve all this?](#can-these-quick-start-inventories-solve-all-this)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Options](#options)
* [Screens](#screens)
* [Rerunning the generator](#rerunning-the-generator)
* [Ansible Wrapper](#ansible-wrapper)
* [TODO](#todo)
* [Caveats](#caveats)
* [Any problem with this generator?](#any-problem-with-this-generator)
* [About Yeoman](#about-yeoman)
* [License](#license)

## Intro

This is a super simple `yeoman` generator, a proof of concept trying to facilitate a quick start with Living Atlas `ansible` inventories.

So with the inventories produced by this `yeoman` generator and the [ala-install](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/) `ansible` playbooks you should deploy a demo with the main LA services quickly and without too much pain.

Also, thanks to `yeoman`, you can rerun the assistant enabling, for instance, some new module reusing your previous settings and comparing the differences (see the screenshots).

## But why this?

Ansible is a fantastic tool for manage LA node infrastructures. But nowadays we have some problems with our current `ala-install` inventories/roles & documentation that make their use difficult by newcomers nodes, but also for other non-Australian nodes maintenance:
- There are many config properties that are not documented and this makes quite difficult to tune a LA node
- Sometimes the `/data/*/config/*properties` are well commented but not their source inventories
- From time to time new properties appears but others not ALA nodes don’t notice
- We end using several self-made inventories, duplicate properties (like orgName, urls, etc), and many times this is a source of problems (like [code duplication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duplicate_code)). Some minor sample:
![](dups.png)
- There is a lack of more real production-ready inventories (you have to ask for then).
- `ala-install` has a structure that sometimes is difficult to find some samples or how to start to deploy some service (think in CAS)
- Many times you have to check the `ansible` generated `config/*properties` for non configured or default properties, search the `ansible` role code for know how to configure these variables, re-run `ansible` with these new variables and re-check the `ansible` `/data/*/config/*properties`.
- The demo inventory (or the last Paris workshop inventories) are a good sample but not enough for a new production LA node (lack of inventory variables documentation, missing of important services like CAS)
- We have a lack of info about services versions compatibility
- Sometimes default module versions in inventories or `LATEST` nexus packages are not the correct/latest ones.
- It would be nice to choose strategies that was usable by ALA too (not only LA nodes) - that might help maintenance.

## Can these quick-start inventories solve all this?

No. This is only a *Proof of Concept* that tries to mitigate some of the previous problems.

If we think that some tool like this can be useful, we can add more functionality like:

- Better comments of properties in generated inventories for easy operation & tuning
- ~CAS deployment~ done ✓
- Focus in have well maintained these generator and their inventories
- Autogenerate documentation from the inventories comments with tools like `doxygen`
- etc

or maybe this experiment suggests us other path to follow.

## Installation

First, install [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io) and generator-living-atlas using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (we assume you have pre-installed [node.js](https://nodejs.org/)).

```bash
npm install -g yo
```

Wait!, this generator is experimental and it's not published in npm. So if you want to test it, you can clone this repo and:

```bash
npm link
cd /tmp # or other directory
yo living-atlas
```

If we decide to publish this generator in the future, the normal use is like:

```bash
npm install -g yo
npm install -g generator-living-atlas
```

Then generate your new project:

```bash
yo living-atlas
```

## Options

- You can use `--debug` to see some debug info.
- And `--replay` to use all the previous responses and regenerate the inventories with some modification.

## Screens

A screen recording re-running the generator but using another solr hostname and switching to use SSL (see the differences in the generated inventories):

![](yo-living-atlas.gif)

After running the inventories following the instructions from the generated README over two VMs (like in the Paris 2019 Workshop):

![](after-running-inventories.png)

Differences beween two runs:

![](re-running-diff.png)

We can use these inventories as a base for extracting documentation via `doxygen` (or similar):

![](doxygen-ansible-reference.png)


## Rerunning the generator

You can rerun the generator with the option `--replay` to use all the previous responses and regenerate the inventories with some modification (if for instance you want to add a new service, or using a new version of this generator with improvements).

We recommend to override and set variables adding then to `quick-start-local-extras.yml` and `quick-start-spatial-local-extras.yml` without modify the generated `quick-start-inventory.yml` and `quick-start-spatial-inventory.yml`, so you can rerun the generator in the future without lost local changes.

## Ansible wrapper

Furthermore, an ansible wrapper is generated to facilitate the use of the inventories, very useful for starting deployments. This is the help of the wrapper:

```
./ansiblew --help
This is an ansible wrapper to help you to exec the different playbooks with your
inventories.

By default don't exec nothing only show the commands. With --nodryrun you can exec
the real commands.

With 'main' only operates over your main host.

Usage:
   ansiblew --alainstall=<dir_of_ala_install_repo> [options] [ main | collectory | ala_hub | biocache_service | ala_bie | bie_index | images | lists | regions | logger | solr | cas | biocache_backend | biocache_cli | spatial |  all ]
   ansiblew -h | --help
   ansiblew -v | --version

Options:
  --nodryrun             Exec the ansible-playbook comands
  -p --properties        Only update properties
  -l --limit=<hosts>     Limit to some inventories hosts
  -s --skip=<tags>       Skip tags
  -h --help              Show help options.
  -d --debug             Show debug info.
  -v --version           Show ansiblew version.
----
ansiblew 0.1.0
Copyright (C) 2019 living-atlases.gbif.org
Apache 2.0 License
```

So you can install the CAS service or the spatial service with commands like:

```bash
./ansiblew --alainstall=../ala-install cas --nodryrun
```

and

```bash
./ansiblew --alainstall=../ala-install-up-to-date spatial --nodryrun
```

or all the services with something like:

```bash
./ansiblew --alainstall=../ala-install all --nodryrun
```

## TODO

- [x] Add basic services (`collectory`, `ala-hub`, etc).
- [x] Add domain/context and service subdomains support
- [x] Add `http`/`https` urls support (this does **not** include `ssl` certificates management)
- [x] Add `regions` service
- [x] Add `species-list` service
- [x] Add `spatial` service
- [x] Disable caches when using the same host for `collectory` & `biocache`
- [x] use `--limit` with hostnames
- [x] Improve README hosts
- [x] Improve README playbook commands
- [x] Add `ansible` wrapper
- [x] Add inventories to add extra vars without modify the generated inventories
- [x] Store = true if you running it for the first time
- [x] Add other administration info (technical_contact, orgEmail, etc)
- [x] Recommend to use git to track your inventories changes
- [x] Add `biocache-backend` and `biocache-cli` playbook and `cassandra` host selection
- [x] Add `CAS` 5 service
- [ ] Fix `apikey_db_dump` location relative to `ala-install`
- [ ] Use a different playbook than demo that do not install by default all main services so we can choose a different host for them
- [ ] Demo index.html uses `biocache_hub_context_path` etc that does not works with multi hosts
- [ ] Document `--skip`
- [ ] Add `--tags` to ansible wrapper
- [ ] Generation of passwords on first run and increase security by default
- [ ] Better testing

## Caveats

- Currently running several services in the same machine and the same domain doesn't configure correctly `nginx` `vhosts`. See [this enhancement issue](https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/issues/256) in `ala-install`. As a workaround you can copy and configure the generated `vhosts` in `/etc/nginx/sites-available` with different names so they are not overwritten by `ansible`.
- As we are using the [https://github.com/AtlasOfLivingAustralia/ala-install/blob/master/ansible/ala-demo.yml](ansible/ala-demo.yml) playbook, if you are using more that two hosts (the minimal is one for main services, and another for spatial services), some services will be also configured in the main machine. As a workaround, while we fix this, you can use a different playbook for your main machine with the correct limited roles.

## Any problem with this generator?

Please [add an issue](https://github.com/vjrj/generator-living-atlas/issues/new) give us details of your problem and we'll try to help you and to improve the generator. Thanks!

## About Yeoman

 * [Learn more about Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/).

## License

Apache-2.0 © [Living Atlases](https://living-atlases.gbif.org)

[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/generator-living-atlas.svg
[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/generator-living-atlas
[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas.svg?branch=master
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas
[daviddm-image]: https://david-dm.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas.svg?theme=shields.io
[daviddm-url]: https://david-dm.org/vjrj/generator-living-atlas
